All right, so next up on our agenda, I want to introduce another piece of functionality that is somewhat
common in a lot of typical web applications, especially within corporations.
And that is the ability to upload a file.
So what we're going to do, first of all, is modify our application to allow us to upload a photo for
our users.
OK, now I'm not saying it's super common to upload photos specifically, especially for corporate web
applications, but this will be a fair excuse for us to at least implement the ability to upload any
kind of file at all.
But we'll be working with photos since we're working with a people database anyway, we might as well
be able to upload a photo of of a person.
All right, so let's get started.
So I think the the way we'd want this to work is that we've already got this form here where we can
create a person.
And what I'm envisioning is simply adding an additional field to the form where we can select the file
from our file system to upload.
And then when we save the person, all of the regular data.
Plus that file will be sent to the back end, which is our Java code, and then we can do something
with it there.
All right.
So before we get into what we're exactly going to do with those files, let's first just acknowledge
that probably we'll have to modify our person class to support an additional field.
OK.
So let's jump into the person class.
And see what we've got here.
Let me make a little room.
OK, so here's our person class.
So yeah, I think this can be as easy as simply adding another field.
Now you might be wondering what should the data type for this field be?
And there are multiple ways that we could do this, but the way that we're going to do it for now and
probably forever is that our personal domain model class is simply going to hold a reference to the
file name.
OK, so we won't actually put the file in instances of a person.
We could do that, but I will explain a little bit later why I'm not super crazy about doing that.
OK, so that makes it even easier, though.
So we'll just have a string and we can say something like photo file name.
Maybe.
And I'm not going to bother with any validation rules for this, since this will be coming from a file
that you would pick from within the browser.
Now I'm not saying you shouldn't have validation in real life, but for our little toy application here,
I'm not to worry about worried about it, and you now know how to put that kind of validation on there
yourself if you really feel that you need to.
All right.
So that's what we need there.
And then let's jump back in to our template.
And so now we can add the field down here.
OK?
And I suppose we can just add it right underneath the salary field.
Now we can jump over into bootstrap and see if Bootstrap offers any nicer looking file, upload widgets
or something like that.
And maybe I will just come up here to the search box and type in upload.
Nope.
How about file?
There we go.
File input right there.
Form control.
File input.
Perfect.
OK, so these are the somewhat visually customized file input widgets that they are providing.
They've got a really large one.
I guess I will just go with this default one notice, though, that they've got both the default and
then a multiple files input example.
So if you want it to be allowed to upload multiple files in one go, I guess you could use that one.
I don't think we're going to need that right now, if ever.
But this first one looks like a good candidate to me, and that should correspond to everything in this
div here.
So I am going to just copy that.
All right, and then I will come over here and I will simply paste it right underneath the salary field
that we already have.
OK?
And then jump back over here to the to the page.
And let's see here.
Let's go ahead and just reload and just see how that looks.
First, before we go any further.
Oh yeah.
And now I've got a lot of things broken here because I forgot about this constructor thing.
I added a new field.
And so over here in the where where are we now?
This is the person data loader class.
Now all of this code here is broken.
Now, interestingly, I mean, we're not even using this data loader anymore.
So.
Hmm.
I'm kind of thinking of not trying to fix this and just comment that all out just to be kind of lazy
and quick about it.
But obviously, if we wanted to, we could fix this by simply passing in, perhaps a null for another
for the for that new parameter, we could likely do something like that, but I don't want to even bother
with that.
So I'm just going to reload.
OK.
And so the browser has updated and there's our new field now, and we need to kind of customize it somewhat,
but that's looking like we're on the right page, so no pun intended.
All right.
So go back over to the template and now we can customize this field a bit.
Let me make some more room here.
So let's see here.
So let's rename this the field label to photo file.
Maybe.
All right.
And let's see that ID there is.
Let's change this.
Let's change the ID here and here in the four to what did I name it in the class photo file name, I
think.
And let me copy that, because then I'm going to have a T.H a timely idea as well.
T-H field equals star and then photo file name like so all right, and let me refresh again.
OK.
And so if I come down here right now and just select, All right, there we go.
So I've made a new folder where I've downloaded a bunch of free images of people, and so I'm in my
people folder here, and this is all looking just fine.
So that much works, at least now.
Let's go ahead and actually select a person, in fact, and I will even fill this out, and I'll even
use the the model's name there.
I guess death then.
Stefan, check, I guess.
And I will make up a date one one, 1980, and as STF at photos dot com with a salary of 50000.
OK, and let's go ahead and save this person.
OK, so we got the person created.
Now we may have virtually no idea if the photo file name actually got sent over because we have no feedback
over here.
Now we could.
Yeah, we can temporarily add that field to the table also so that we can see if we've got that data.
So let's see, where would I guess I'm going to add it right after the salary for now, at least.
So let's go to the header.
Of our table, and I will just duplicate that.
The salary header column and then add another one for photo.
And then down here where we have the salary data cell, I will duplicate again, and now we will refer
to photo dot, our person dot.
What was it?
Photo file name.
Like so and we don't need the double.
Curly braces for that one because we're not formatting it or anything.
And let's see if this works like this.
Yeah.
OK, so this is what the browser sent to the back end, just this string of the actual file name itself.
OK, so that's part of what we need, but obviously what we really want is the actual file, which you
can think of it as a series of bytes.
OK.
It's binary data.
It's not text, but it's actually binary data that we are really wanting.
And so right now, our application is not technically configured to send the actual binary data that
comprises the photo.
All its currently sending is just this string of the file name itself.
OK.
So we need to figure out how can we get our hands on the actual bytes, right?
The actual binary data that comprises that photo?
So we'll actually need a few things to make that work.
First off, if we come down here to our form, the person form here, we're going to have to change
a one little thing about how this form is configured to work.
So if we go to the form element itself right here, there's an additional argument that we can specify
on the form to tell it how we want it to transmit data.
So you will recall that whenever the web page is submitting a request back to the back end and we have
form data, that data is being encoded essentially as just a text string of key value pairs, right?
So we'd have the first name field equals and then the value that sent it and then an ampersand.
And then the last thing field, according to its ID, which is last name and then an equals and then
whatever value we put in there and then another ampersand to separate out each of the fields, and all
of that will be concatenated into one text string.
OK.
So currently that's still happening, even for this photo file filled here.
We've just got another field in that text string with the photo file name ID equals and then whatever
the name of the file is.
OK.
And all of that's being concatenated and sent over.
And then spring is parsing out that string and then populating each of the fields of our person object
with the values that came back from these key value pairs.
So it's really, really simplistic, very, very straightforward, OK?
And the request itself, just as a quick reminder, is really just a text file that has a bunch of headers.
One of those headers was like the accept language that we've looked at a few times here, which is where
we're getting the local information and then a bunch of other headers that we're not really paying a
lot of attention to for the most part.
The very first part of that header, though, will say like the HTTP method type, which is usually
a get.
Although when we're submitting the form, it's a post because we configured our form to do a post where
we lost that right there, right?
So it'll say post and then the name of the resource, which in our case is people, right?
And all of those headers and then one blank line and then on the next line will be the so-called payload
or the body of the request, which in our case currently just contains those key value pairs.
All concatenate it together.
OK.
So that's what we're normally getting.
However, if we want to send binary data like a file upload with all of its data, we need to use a
different format to send that data.
And specifically, what we want to use in that case is call a multipart format.
OK.
And the way we can get that to happen is with a simple additional attribute on the form element here.
So what we can do here is I can simply do a control space and I can come down here to this attribute
EMC type and then I can choose an explicit encoding type.
So right now, the default encode type is actually this one here.
Application X w WW form u URL encoded, OK.
So when we're seeing those key value pairs with the ampersand and all of that, that's just what we
call a URL encoding.
It's the same as what we could have actually put right up here in the URL itself.
There's really no difference, except that instead of it being on the URL, it's in the body of the
request.
OK.
So that's what we're getting by default.
But if we want to be able to transmit binary data in that request, along with all the rest of it,
we need to use this multi-part form data.
And basically, what that's going to do is it's going to still be sort of a text file that gets sent
across.
But instead of one line in our case of key value pairs all on one line, each key and value will now
be separated out on their own lines.
And then there will be a little extra stuff to basically indicate the.
Boundary between each key value pair.
OK.
And the reason for that is because then it allows for an unspecified amount of additional data for a
value which in this case would be all of the binary bytes of the image that we're uploading.
OK.
Because you don't know how long that's going to be.
So it may need plenty of space.
OK, so the multi-part encoding scheme allows for that, and you can just send a lot of different data.
You can even send multiple files all in one request with this approach.
OK.
So anyway, we're going to select multipart form data like so and so that will enable us to upload not
only the file name, but the actual file data itself.
However, it's not quite that simple.
That's just one step.
But then we will also need to jump over to the controller.
And set the controller up to actually be able to receive this data.
OK, so currently our post mapping is calling the save person method, and spring is automatically validating
the key value pair data from the farm.
And then if it's all valid and then binding whatever it can into an instance of a person and then any
existing errors will go into the errors, right?
So here's a question what is spring going to do with this binary data?
OK, first off, let's talk about what binary data could even look like in Java.
OK, so we know that the file name itself can be represented as a string because it's just text, right?
But binary data.
You can really think of it as an array of bytes.
And in fact, in Java, oftentimes binary data is represented as an array of bytes.
OK.
Because virtually any computer data can be decomposed down to a bunch of bytes, essentially.
All right.
And so that's just a very generic way that you can represent just about anything in Java or in any other
computer language, for that matter.
OK.
So where could these bytes go?
We currently are not modeling any place to hold on to an array of bytes.
OK, so we need some kind of a model that can receive this array of bytes so that we can then do something
with it.
So the way we can do that, and I'm not saying this is the only way, but this is a pretty easy way.
I think to do this is that we can actually just add in another field here and we can tell spring to
explicitly look for the photo file name parameter that's coming in and on the request and map its binary
data to a specific parameter.
And our method?
OK.
So we can do that by adding an at request program annotation like so and then we can introduce another
parameter here.
Now, spring actually has a special parameter that is intended to represent files that are being uploaded.
And if you use this specific spring data type, then it's pretty easy to work with files once you receive
them.
And so that's what we're actually going to use here.
Now, I've never tried this, but I think we could also use a byte array if we wanted to.
I think so, but we're not going to bother with that in case any of you were wondering and you are free
to try that out.
But let's just cut to the chase in the interest of time, OK?
So we're going to use a special spring data type, which is called multi-part file, and then we will
name this parameter.
Photo file name.
So we'll have it match what the parameter is called from the incoming request itself.
All right.
Photo file name.
So if we just do that, that should enable spring to pass out the binary data of that incoming file
and place it inside of that photo file name variable.
OK.
And next thing we can do for right now, just to kind of verify that we're even on the right track.
Let's go ahead and just output that that variable.
Now this data tie multipart file actually is an object, obviously, and it has methods on it.
And so we can actually look at some of the methods.
So they're the bytes right there, by the way, those are the bytes.
And look at that, you've got an array of bytes.
So that just proves the fact that fundamentally any binary data that we're receiving really can be boiled
down into just an array of bytes.
But we can also do something like get the name of the file or the original file name of the file.
So let's grab the original file name, OK, and we'll just print that out.
By the way, I really need to hurry up and introduce you guys to a proper way of of kind of debugging
your code.
With these outputs and stuff, it's actually kind of bad to embed system that out, that print lines,
there's a much better way called logging, and I will introduce just a tiny bit of it right now because
this is so bad and I really shouldn't have let it go this this long.
So here's what we'll do.
Real quick, real, real quick.
Go to the very top of the class there, and we're going to do a flat log for J2.
So this is a Lombok Lombok annotation, and it enables really easy logging.
I don't know that I'm even going to bother to explain a whole lot of how it's working.
Other Yeah, but but it's good stuff.
And then what we will do is let's just search for system that out that print line.
So I'm going to select that system that out, that print line, just that bit there and then do a command
are to do a search and replace and tab down once.
And then I will replace that with what is at Log Dot Info I.
Guess for now, anything is better than what I'm currently doing there.
All right, so I just replaced all the places in this class where I had assistant got out that print
line.
Those have all been replaced with long dyed info.
OK.
All right.
So that will still result in that information information being printed out to the console, essentially.
But the logging thing here can be turned on and off because typically in a real production application
like that's live and being used by a bunch of people, you might not want just every single thing in
the universe that you ever were trying to print out to always print out.
Some of that is kind of like just for testing purposes, which is pretty much what we're doing right
here.
But I just kind of want to show you this because I feel bad.
Some of you might stop watching the rest of my videos and just like, go off and say, like, Oh, I
know how to do everything now.
And like, you're just constantly using system flat out that print line, and that would be bad.
OK.
So enough about that for right now.
All right.
Try to get back to that.
And if I don't, you'll catch it in my next actual spring course, right?
Right?
You'll you'll you'll see me again in the spring course, I hope.
OK, good.
All right.
OK, so one other thing too.
Let's see if we can get the size of the file.
I think I think we'll have access to that.
Yeah, there it is.
Get size.
Yeah, let's get that also.
And you know what, I should probably kind of like state what these things are now.
File I guess this file name is find file name space, and I'm just going to concatenate with a plus
here because I'm doing really simple stuff for now and file size plus.
All right, cool.
That way when when we see this information printed out, we can actually kind of understand what it
is.
All right.
So let's reload.
OK.
I think we are reloaded.
And let's add another person.
So I'm going to start down here with the file uploader again because I got the name of the person from
here.
It's hard for me to come up with these names, so I'm just going to pick that second person now.
And that is Albert Deira.
OK, so here we go.
Albert D.E.A. and I will do two to 1990 and Ada at photos.
Oops!
Photos, dot com and 45000.
All right, and I'm going to hit enter.
Ooh, look at that!
OK, now got an issue here and I see right away.
I just happened to see this bit right there.
Maximum upload size exceeded.
All right, and this is good.
So what's happening here is the file of file that I just tried to upload is exceeding the default upload
file size that is currently configured for my spring web application.
And apparently, the maximum permitted size is currently whatever this number is.
How many?
Let's see one two three one one Meg.
It looks like one Meg one million one million forty eight thousand five hundred seventy six bytes,
so that's one Meg.
That is the max.
So what can we do about that?
It's easy.
So we can actually just override that.
And to do so, we need to do is jump into the application that properties file right here.
And there will be another property that allows us to control the max, upload file size of whatever
they're calling it.
And again, let me just remind you, you don't have to memorize these things, necessarily at least
not like in detail.
You can just jump into the spring boot data properties documentation here, OK?
And probably the easiest way to find this particular parameter that we're looking for is to search for
the word multi-part.
OK.
So you know that you had to use the multipart file file type.
So if you come over here and just search for a multi part.
There we go.
We're in the neighborhood here and let's see.
We've got multipart file size threshold max file size that looks like a winner, winner, chicken dinner
right there.
So I would copy that.
Come over here.
Paste that in and then set that to something else.
Now, when you take my spring course and I go into way more detail on spring and everything, you will
learn what I'm about to tell you right now.
So I guess you're about to learn it now if you just don't want to have a max file size at all, which
is what I'm going to do for right now.
You can just set this value to negative one.
That just tells it Don't care.
Just blow up my computer with some idiot who tried to upload a one terabyte file.
I don't care.
Obviously, you should care about that.
But for right now, I'm just going to do the easy thing and set this to negative one.
But you could explicitly set this to whatever value you want.
So currently, just keep in mind, the default was one Meg.
Write One Meg.
All right.
And then I will.
Jump back over to the Web application window here, and then I will reload.
All right, so let's try adding another person, so again, I will come down here and I will select,
I'm going to start by selecting a person so that I can get a name.
So we'll do the second person.
Albert Deira.
All right.
So Albert, D.E.A. and I will just do a date of, I don't know, 1990 and a DEA at photos dot com.
That's fine and a salary of 35000.
OK.
And let's let's add Albert.
All right.
So let's see here.
So notice now Albert isn't showing up in here, and we've got all of that data still here, except for
that file name.
We've got all of that.
So what is going on?
So I think we have to assume that there are errors here.
OK.
I think that's what we should assume.
But how can we confirm that?
Well, I think the easiest thing we can probably do is just log out the value of this errors here.
So let's do that.
Now I'm going to keep things simple for now and just keep using this info method, but just know that
there are actually a lot of methods that we could use to log information out.
But then we'd need to configure things to.
We'd need to also do some configurations to say like which, which values from which of these methods
do we want to actually be able to see?
And I don't get into all of that.
So we're just going to keep it simple and use info for now.
And and yeah, we'll just do the errors, although I probably should at least label that errors, errors
plus.
OK.
Something like that.
All right.
So now if we try this again, well, let me reload.
Let's reload.
Okay.
Let's see if that already.
Oh, yeah, and we got it already because the request was was just kind of replayed.
OK.
Yeah.
OK, so here's our errors.
I forgot to put a space there.
Let's see.
So one error and it looks like it.
Yeah, there it is.
A K filled error in object person on field photo file name rejected value.
Let's see.
There's a whole lot of stuff here.
Let me go all the way to the end of it.
That might actually be easier.
No matching editors or conversion strategy found for the photo file name string.
OK, yeah.
So I think I can already understand what's happening here.
So it's referring to this multi-part data that came in from the request, and it looks like what it
tried to do is to it tried to take the multipart data from the request and bind that to the photo file
name field of our person class.
So let me just remind you what we're saying here.
So here's the person class and string and spring will try to take all of the key value pairs that are
existing on the incoming request and match them up as best as it can.
So one of those key value pairs is labeled photo file name, and our person class now has a field called
photo file name of type string.
All right.
In addition to the fact that we also have a field here, a parameter here called photo file name as
well of type multipart.
So what's happening is that spring is having no trouble extracting the multi-part file name data from
the request and binding it to this parameter.
That's just fine because the data itself is of type, multi-part file name, so to speak.
And so that matches up really perfectly here.
However, it also thinks that it needs to bind that same data to this field here.
However, this is a string, and it doesn't know now how to take that binary data that it's in the request
and turn it into a string.
It just doesn't know what to do with it.
OK?
What do you think we could do to solve this problem where spring wants to bind request parameter data?
It's technically, I guess, not really a parameter anymore, because now it's like this multi-part
data.
But anyway, it's trying to bind this data of one type in the request to a field of a of another type
type string.
Can you think of what we can do to solve this problem?
OK.
Did you come up with it?
You've already learned how to solve this kind of problem before so you could use a formatter.
Remember when we created a format for displaying the salaries and even for the dates of birth, although
now we're not using that format or here in the table because we're doing a timely thing, but the formatter
class still exists.
Let me open up the project pane here, and you can see here we've got these two format or you've got
a big decimal format and a low cal date format.
OK.
So these classes are registered with spring by putting this component annotation on it, and then they
implement the formatter interface, which is generic so that we can specify what the data type is that
we are talking about.
Converting now format or specifically are designed to convert from some data type to a string and from
a string to a data type.
OK, so we can use a format or perfectly for this.
Now, I don't remember if I mentioned it, but spring has a very similar way of doing conversions that
don't necessarily involve going from a thing to a string and a string to a thing.
If you just want to go from one thing to another thing, for example, you can you can do something
almost identical to this, except instead of implementing format or you would implement converter and
then instead of passing in one generic parameter, you'd pass in two generic parameters, which would
be the two data types, OK.
But if you're just doing something to string and then string to something, then you can just use a
format or and that is all we're doing here.
So all we need to do is create another formatter here.
So I'm going to highlight the format or package there, and then I'm going to do a new Java class and
we will call this multi part file format or because that's what it's going to work with.
All right.
And yes, I will add that to my get stuff, which you won't have, probably.
And then I will say this implements formatter and then the generic type will be multi-part file.
All right.
And then we will let the oh, by the way, be careful here because the the the formatter itself is called
multi-part file format.
So be careful and don't accidentally set your generic type two multi-part file format.
OK.
Don't do that.
All right.
So you want multipart file?
And then we will let the ADC generate our methods here.
And so down here, if we are receiving a multipart file from the request and we need to somehow turn
that into a string representation that can be stored in the person instance, then all we need to do
is call object dot get.
And then we can do something like original file name, right?
Like, so now honestly, I'm not even sure that the reverse case would ever be necessary, so I think
I'm going to leave that null for now.
OK.
And then the last thing we need to do is to annotate this as a component so that spring will know about
it.
All right.
And then let's refresh or reload.
Hey, and look at that as soon as we did that, the request that the browser already really had kind
of cued up, if you want to think of it in this way, went ahead and refreshed the browser, which caused
that that request to be recent.
And now Spring was able to figure out what to do.
Yeah.
And so there's our new person now, so we are now getting.
Let me jump back over to the controller.
So we now are receiving the actual binary data of the file, but we're not doing anything with it other
than just saying, Yep, I got it.
And here's the file name, and here's the size.
But we're not actually like doing anything with it.
So I think we're we need to stop here on this lesson and in the next lesson, we will actually figure
out, OK, now what can we really do with this file?
Because I think what we want to do is we want to take that file the photo file and store it somewhere,
right?
That's what we probably need to be doing.
OK.
So let's do that in the next lesson.